>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah, hi everyone.
So my name's Kent C Dodds and
this is some information about me.
Each one of these little things is linked,
including a cute picture of my puppy.
My oldest is not even six yet, so
I don't know why we got a puppy,
but we did and now we're happy with her.
But, yeah, so my slides are right here.
Kcd.im/tp/slides and
you can get all the links and stuff.
There isn't a whole lot
to my slides beyond this.
There are a couple of useful things and
some resources that I link to, but for
the most part, most of our time is
gonna be spent in the repo anyways so.
Which is open source,
you'll have access to that forever.
Okay, cool, so
I like to set up expectations so
that you're not waiting for
something and then it never comes.
So let's talk about what this talk is.
We're gonna be talking about
the fundamentals behind tests and testing.
So we're actually going to write
a testing framework in assertion library.
That's the first thing
we're gonna do today.
So that you really get understanding
of what testing really is.
Another thing that I didn't mention but
I probably should is this
is all JavaScript stuff.
So if you're not experienced
with JavaScript at all,
you're gonna struggle a little bit.
I had somebody come to a workshop like
this recently who knew nothing about
JaveScript and it was a little bit of
a struggle for them to do the exercises.
So hopefully you're
familiar with JavaScript,
if you're not then get your friend to
come and help you with the syntax.
JavaScript is the best language anyway,
so you should learn it.
So we're gonna talk about
different forms of testing,
not all forms of testing, there are many.
The two that we're focusing on today
are unit and integration testing.
This is more like practices and
principles, so
lots of these things can apply
to various forms of testing.
These are just the two that
we'll be focusing on today.
And we'll definitely cover test doubles or
mocks, spies, stubs,
whatever you wanna call those things.
We'll be talking about that,
what those really are and
in what situations they're useful.
We'll talk about test driven development.
We're not gonna be talking about all of
the different methodologies of testing,
but TDD is one that I've found to be
pretty useful in certain situations.
And then yeah, just hopefully this
gives you some core principles to help
you write tests that'll give you
confidence and also are maintainable.
So I'm gonna try and
avoid technology specific stuff there.
We're going to be using
specific frameworks and stuff.
And so you will need to learn
at least the assertion library,
and how to use the framework a little bit.
But the technology specific stuff is for
my other workshop with testing react.
We're not going to configure any tools,
it's all preconfigured for you and
everything.
And testing is one subject that
has a huge variety of opinions.
And that is not lost on me,
I have a lot of opinions based
off my experience testing.
And I know several people, I just spoke at
a conference all about testing Javascript,
and it was like every other talk was
disagreeing with the previous one.
It was so many opinions about testing.
So there are tradeoffs
everywhere in software.
In particular with testing
there are tons of tradeoffs.
So I'll be giving you my opinions of
things that I have seen that have made it
easier for me to maintain tests, and that
give me confidence that I'm looking for.
And like I said earlier, we're not
covering all the forms of testing,
just a select few.
So if you haven't set up the work shop,
make sure that you do that.
It's going to take a fair
amount of time to set it up.
Just because that's the way it is.
The workshop is pretty big.
It's actually an application where
I'm trying to balance the line
between totally practical but
not too confusing and domain specific.
And so you are installing an app,
but it also has several other,
this other directory that has some other
stuff in it for specific examples.
So yeah, this may take a fair amount
of time for you to install, but
once that's done you should be all set and
ready to go.
If you are struggling with that
a little bit, I'll be in the chat and
in here helping people out
during exercises and stuff.
Yeah, for many of the exercise, not all
of them but for many of the exercises
there's a test at the bottom that has
a link to elaboration and feedback.
This is scientifically proven that
when you reiterate the things that
you have been taught, that you'll
remember those things better, and so
that's why I have this form.
That's why I added it to my workshops.
So it gives you an opportunity
to type out what it is that you
learned from the exercise.
And that will just help
solidify things in your mind.
>> Mark: If you're watching it as
a course, use the notes feature and
take notes to yourself.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah, thanks, Mark.
Yeah, I gotta think about that too.
Feel free to still submit
the feedback if you want to, but
yeah the notes feature would be a good
place to take those notes as well.
And then if you have any questions for
me that aren't really related to this,
I do have an ask me anything on GitHub.
Several hundreds of questions on there,
that you could read through and
ask additional questions if they're
not relevant to today's subject.
And then I tweet sometimes.
Actually, I tweet like, all the time,
I'm constantly tweeting all the time.
So if you're interested
in JavaScript react and
how cute my dog is, yeah,
I don't tweet about my dog too much.
Okay, so the routine that we're gonna go
through is that I'm gonna demo something,
a principle or practice.
And, well, this is a general routine,
not all of them will follow this.
But in general, I'll demo something.
I'll introduce you to the exercise, and
then set you loose on the exercise.
I'll show you how to run the tests and
everything to get that exercise going.
If you can, pair program with
somebody on the exercise.
You don't both have to be working
through the exercise on your computer,
you can be on one person's computer.
So if you are interested in doing that I
recommend it because it's a real great
way for both of you to solidify
when you are understanding.
You have to talk through what
your assumptions are and
you can correct each other assumptions.
So pair programming
the exercises is a great way
to solidify your understanding there.
Make sure to fill out the elaboration.
That'll help you solidify things.
For some of the exercises there's
a bonus test that you can
implement additional stuff,
implement additional tests.
And look for opportunities to help others.
So let me let you in on a little secret.
So when I give these workshops,
this is actually just a part
of my learning process.
So I'm in the process of learning testing
and the process of learning React.
And a really important part of my
process is to teach what I'm learning
to other people and
that's how I solidify my understanding.
So I wouldn't have had nearly as much
experience with this stuff if I didn't
have to prepare this
workshop to give to you all.
And I want to work really hard to
make sure it's really great content.
And so when you try to take
the things you've learned and
teach it to other people,
it will help solidify that
understanding in your mind as well.
Clear up some misconceived assumptions
that you have and that kind of thing.
So if you notice somebody's
struggling with something, look for
an opportunity to help them.
And if you notice something weird in the
repository or typo or anything like that,
feel free to make pro request.
It's totally open source and
several people have actually done that.